{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red78\green78\blue78;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\info
{\author Becky Hurwitz}}\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Safer Photos: How to remove location information from mobile images
\b0 \
 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 Posted by MelissaUlbricht on Mar 10, 2011\cf0 mobile phone.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa312

\f1\fs20 \cf0 In a previous\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.mobileactive.org/howtos/how-add-location-information-mobile-content"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc0 post}}
\f0\fs24 , we described how to add location information to mobile content, including images and stories. For some reports, location information adds value, context, and interest to venue-specific reports. But today, we talk about how to remove that same\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/12/technology/personaltech/12basics.html?_r=4"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf3 \ul \ulc0 location information}}. This is also detailed, step by step, in this screencast.\

\f1\fs20 There are many reasons why one would not want to include location information on images, but at the top of the list is the need for security and privacy. Careful planning and strategic considerations are required for journalists, citizen reporters, and activists to be secure in insecure regions, especially when reporting in repressive media environments. All mobile phones have a small amount of storage space on the SIM card. It is used to store contact information, call history, SMS messages, and photos taken using the camera phone. Most phones store the time the photo was taken and may also include location information such as latitude and longitude coordinates.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa312

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Step one: Check to see if location information is being captured
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa312

\f1\fs20 \cf0 The first step is to see if location information is, indeed, being captured and stored with your images. Most pictures from camera phones today have location information stored in the metadata.\'a0\uc0\u8232 \u8232 To see whether there is location data stored in your photo, you will need to use a tool that reads location-based\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exchangeable_image_file_format"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc0 EXIF data}}
\f0\fs24 . On most smartphones, you can check this via the photo gallery. From the gallery, press Menu to get details. If you can\'92t tell from your camera or smartphone alone, you can also check on your computer.
\f2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f0 On a Mac, open the image in Preview, click Tools, select the Inspector tab, and go to the GPS section where the latitude and longitude of the image are (potentially) shown. In Windows, right click on the image, click Properties, select the Details tab, and scroll down to the GPS section, where location may be shown.\'a0
\f2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f0 If neither of these options work, you can also use an\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://regex.info/exif.cgi"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf3 \ul \ulc0 EXIF viewer}}. Just upload the image in question, and the viewer can determine what, if any, location information is available. Again, if specific latitude and longitude information is available, it will be shown here. Another one is\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.irfanview.com/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf3 \ul \ulc0 IrfanView.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa312

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Step two: Remove the location data
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa312

\f1\fs20 \cf0 Once you know whether your image has location information stored, and in the case that it does, you may want to remove that info, depending on your privacy and security needs. The safest way to remove EXIF data is to upload your photo to the computer and remove the data using software.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 One option is free or trial tools. You can downloaded a tool for Mac called\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.earlyinnovations.com/photolinker/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc0 PhotoLinker}}
\f0\fs24 , for example, which is designed to let you edit and remove location information on images. For Windows,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.superutils.com/products/exifcleaner/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf3 \ul \ulc0 EXIF Cleaner}}\'a0is another option. EXIF Cleaner can remove files in a batch\

\f1\fs20 On a Mac, open the photo in the PhotoLinker program and you will be able to see the location information. You will also see a detailed map and a list of all other tagged data including a timestamp. From here, you can remove or change the information under Photos/Remove GPS location. Then, re-save the image before sharing or publishing it. (Watch this in action on the screencast above.)\uc0\u8232 \u8232 EXIF data, in addition to location information, may also reveal other data about your phone such as \'a0 the make and model and the time an image or video was taken. There may be instances where you want to retain certain information, while removing other specific data. For instance, there may be a situation where you want to leave in the make and model of the phone as well as the date and time of the photo, but remove the location information.\'a0\u8232 \u8232 Such selective editing of this EXIF data can be done. There are some apps available on iPhone and Android that offer EXIF manipulation on a device, such as\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.iphoneography.com/journal/2010/8/31/new-iphone-photo-app-exif-wizard.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc0 EXIF Wizard}}
\f0\fs24 \'a0and\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://market.android.com/search?q=exif"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf3 \ul \ulc0 others}}.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.superutils.com/products/exifcleaner/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf3 \ul \ulc0 EXIF Cleaner}}, mentioned above, can handle files in a batch and allows for selective deletion of data.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa312

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Step Three: Check your defaults
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa312

\f1\fs20 \cf0 Another way to remove location data is to have your photo sharing site scrub the location information for you. The two most popular sites in the U.S., Facebook and Flickr, both do this. As of last year, it was the default policy on each service. The Flickr policy can be accessed\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.flickr.com/account/?tab=privacy"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc0 here}}
\f0\fs24 .
\f2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f0 Under \'93Defaults for New Uploads,\'94 \'a0make sure that \'93Import EXIF location data\'94 \'a0says \'93No.\'94 This will ensure that the default for new photos is to not import any location information that may be on the metadata for the photo.
\f2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f0 However, do take note that for sensitive photographs, importing to Flickr still contains risks. The location data removal is done at Flickr\'92s servers and anyone able to access your photograph while it is being uploaded to Flickr will be able to access it\'92s embedded location information. The same is true of Facebook, which strips location data off all images.\

\f1\fs20 The screencast is also available on\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fvIu_0wks0s"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc0 YouTube}}
\f0\fs24 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa312

\f1\i\fs20 \cf0 Prabhas Pokharel contributed research and writing to this post.
\f0\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs20 \cf0 - See more at: http://www.mobileactive.org/howtos/safer-photos-how-remove-location-information-mobile-images#sthash.PBn7NDKg.dpuf\
\
\
All of the content and Services that are owned by MobileActive Corp and third parties is protected by the United States Copyright Act of 1976, as amended, and the copyright laws of other countries. Certain materials are used by permission of their respective owners. Any intellectual property on the MobileActive website, including graphics, images, buttons, and text, may not be copied, reproduced, republished, uploaded, posted, transmitted, or distributed in any way without the prior permission of MobileActive Corp, except that such permission shall exist for those Users abiding by the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No-Derivatives 3.0 License. Modification or use of content for any other purpose is a violation of the rights of MobileActive Corp or any applicable third parties. Nothing herein shall be construed as conferring by implication, estoppel, or otherwise, any license or right under any copyright, patent, trademark, or other proprietary interest of MobileActive Corp or of third parties, other than those expressly granted in these Terms and Conditions.\
\
MobileActive Corp reserves the right to terminate your use of the Site or Services in appropriate circumstances if you infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third party. Pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, 17 U.S.C. 512(c)(2), MobileActive's designated agent for notice of alleged copyright infringement in connection with the Site is:\
\
Katrin Verclas, MobileActive Corp\
\
121 W 27th Street, Suite 702\
New York, NY 10001\
\
To file a notice of infringement with MobileActive, the requirements specified in Title II of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 must be fulfilled. The text of this statute can be found at the U.S. Copyright Office website, located at http://lcweb.loc.gov/copyright.
\f0\fs24 \
\
}